feat: Enhancements to GH vale-actions documentation (#303)
redhat-documentation/vale-at-red-hat: modules/user-guide/pages/using-vale-github-action.adoc

// Metadata for Antora
:navtitle: Integrating Vale into your GitHub workflow
:keywords: vale, github
:description: Integrating the Vale linter into your GitHub workflow by using a GitHub Action
:page-aliases: end-user-guide:using-vale-github-action.adoc
// End of metadata for Antora

:context: using-vale-github-action
:_module-type: PROCEDURE
[id="proc_using-vale-github-action_{context}"]
= Integrating Vale into your Git workflow by using a GitHub Action

> Integrate Vale into your GitHub content development workflow by creating a GitHub Action that uses the errata-ai `vale-action`, which is the official GitHub Action for Vale. You can integrate Vale for informational purposes or to measure compliance with a specific style guide, for example, the Red Hat vale style guide (vale-at-red-hat). You can also use Vale to enforce compliance with a specific style guide.

Author: +1  Thanks @aireilly

> By creating a GitHub Action workflow for vale, you can configure how vale runs including the Git workflow events that trigger the vale job, and the specific options to run vale with. For example, you can decide to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By creating a GitHub Action workflow for Vale, you can configure how Vale runs including the Git workflow events that trigger the Vale job, and the specific options to run Vale with. For example, you can decide to:
```

Reviewer: Please update other similar instances of "vale" in this PR.

Author: Done :+1:

> * Run vale when a contributor creates a pull request
> * Linter the diff only
> * Allow the merging of pull requests if the report has errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Run vale when a contributor creates a pull request.
* Lint the diff only.
* Allow the merging of pull requests if the report has errors.
```
"Lint the diff" might be too difficult to understand. How about "Run Vale on only the changes." or something similar?

Author: Done :+1:

* Block the merging of pull requests if the report has errors

For a full list of supported configuration options, see link:https://github.com/errata-ai/vale-action[Vale GitHub Action].

.Prerequisites

> * Your content repository is on GitHub. For GitLab repos, see * xref:defining-a-vale-onboarding-strategy.adoc[Define a Vale CI onboarding strategy for your project].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your content repository is on GitHub. For GitLab repos, see xref:defining-a-vale-onboarding-strategy.adoc[Define a Vale CI onboarding strategy for your project].
```

Reviewer 2: We can remove entirely "Lint the diff only". The GitHub action runs vale on all files and only reports back in the pull request errors in modified files.

Author: ```
with:
   files: __onlyModified
   onlyAnnotateModifiedLines: true
```
The above config is now the default behavior in the ReviewDog implementation. You can set this to false, which is why I added it as a possibility to the list.

> WARNING: Because of GitHub token permissions, the Vale GitHub Action cannot post annotations to pull requests from a forked repository.

Reviewer 3: Is this accurate? I think @themr0c reviewed and this is not the case anymore.

Author: Thanks @aireilly

Author: @themr0c - Can you confirm whether the WARNING is still needed? It was still in the content that was recently updated. Thanks.

Reviewer: Let's handle this question in a new issue: https://github.com/redhat-documentation/vale-at-red-hat/issues/309

      - name: Vale Linter
        uses: errata-ai/vale-action@reviewdog
        with:
          fail_on_error: false
          vale_flags: "--no-exit"
          files: __onlyModified
          onlyAnnotateModifiedLines: true
        env:
          # Required, set by GitHub actions automatically:
          # https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/automatic-token-authentication#about-the-github_token-secret
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN}}
----
. Optional: Change the default configuration to suit the requirements of your project. For example, if you want to block PR merges when vale linter errors exist, set `fail_on_error` to *true*.

> . Commit and push the GitHub Action to the primary branch of your GitHub repository, for example, `main`, and rebase your other branches to ensure that they receive the changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Commit and push the GitHub Action to the main branch of your GitHub repository and rebase your other branches.
```

.Verification

> To test that your GitHub Action is working, on your working branch, change or add some content files, and submit a pull request against the main docs branch. The Vale linter will run and report an expandable status summary in the MR.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To test your GitHub Action, change or add some content files and submit a pull request to the main docs branch. The Vale linter will run and report an expandable status summary in the PR.
```

Author: +1
